Welcome back right here for you I have a simple express server that shows how server side rendering
re-act would work.
Let's go one by one to figure out what is happening.
And by the way if you're not too familiar using knode and express I recommend you check out my other
course.
Otherwise assuming that we're comfortable with this it's fairly easy.
All we're doing is importing the Express library to create our server.
So we just do express to create our app server and within our own line 10 I say app use Xpress dot static
and I don't need that plus sign to public folder.
Now what does that mean.
This is saying that I want to serve static files such as images CSSA files and javascript files using
the Express built in static middleware.
So if you ever work with EXPRESS This is just the standard serve any sort of file that we want to do.
So again if our app has CSSA files then we're going to need to you add this to the top of our server
and we are going to use the public folder that I can name this whatever I want but it's the public folder
that we're going to have our static files.
And let's ignore line 12 for now and move on to line 13 over here.
We see here that we have re-act dot create aliment and we actually don't need to do this as the name
suggests.
This just says we want to create an element a re-act element from app so app over here that I'm importing
can be our Apogee file with our Riak component in which case we don't need to do this or it could be
a file that has some view engine such as.
Yes and we want to convert that a shemale like syntax and to a re-act syntax.
Either way line 13 just simply means just.
We have our robo friends app.
In our case we can just have our apt our js file like we have on our front end.
Now from here all we do is with Express we can do the DOT get say that at the root directory so if I
do Roble friends dot com slash I will do a get request and it's going to return the server is going
to return a response that renders the index.
So again we're returning a shemale here.
We're going to render an index with the content.
And this is where things differ from a client side rendered up you see with Robur friends we never really
needed to have a server.
We just had the Cline files that get delivered.
And we could just place it on somewhere like get pages that host Sir static files.
Now within here we're using something called render to string.
And you see over here that render to string comes from something called re-act dash Dohm server and
this is a special package that you use when you're doing server side rendering with re-act as the name
suggests.
All it does and it's actually quite simple.
All it does is saying hey just rendered the robo friends app just print out the entire look of the rebel
friends up and just converted into String.
Because when we talk between the server and the client we have to send text.
We can't just send the actual out because well that just won't work.
Every time we're sending information over the wire we have to send texts which is why we use things
like Jason Parsons Well and within here on our robo friends up we're also giving it some props.
So this process looks like we're just giving it some data in our case just because we're doing server
side rendering let's send them some robots some Jaison So that is maybe robots that are very very common
that when we want to display to the user without sending an API request or doing a fetch call maybe
we have it in our public folder and we just write a robot that is on file and give it maybe three objects
of robots we can pass out down as props to robust friends.
And that's what we're doing here.
All we're doing here is using the FS module from node which says hey just read this file and this encoding
format which is pretty much a standard.
I think if you leave this blank you'll be still the same because this is the default.
And then we do Jason parce again because we need to send things through text.
We want to make sure that this is parsed and ready so that we can send it over the wires all the way
to the client browser.
Now although some of this may be new it's not too bad is it.
There's just a few lines of code at the end of the day though.
All we're doing is converting our re-act application our app by just calling Rander to string to convert
it to strings so we can send it over the wire to the browser.
The idea being that if we render this app on the server instead of just having that div with the ID
app on the front end like we usually do with re-act applications we can send down HDMI.
That is already filled with all our robot elements so that the web page can display our robo friends
app right away and make the page load seem a lot faster.
And we're also sending down some robots initially.
So that again to the user it appears a lot faster.
Now here's the trick with server side rendering and react you see we need react on both the server and
the browser because initially we're sending down a string version.
So re-act Dom server render a string that's going to convert our react up into strings send it over
the wire.
And it arrives in the browser but in the browser.
Now we need to do something called re-act Dom.
Hydrate and.
These are only used for server side rendering.
And you just need to know these two things.
If you called re-act Dom Daut Hydroid it's pretty much like calling the render method in our components.
Except that with this re-act Ahmad hydrate when we call this on a node that already has this server
rendered markup that we've created re-act is going to preserve it preserve the markup and only attach
event handlers so that we can actually interact with our Web site.
We still need to run this because if we just send whatever we get from the server it's still not interactive
is just text that we receive.
And I know this seems really specific to react but the principles and the ideas apply to all libraries
and frameworks including angler including view anything that works with single side single page applications.
Use something like this you would render your page or the view on the server you send it down as text
and then on the front end you would attach event listeners or any javascript functionality that you
need.
Again once it is rendered over here javascript takes over by doing something called hydrating which
gives the interactivity all the page we want.
Now you might be thinking wait could I potentially then make web pages work without javascript.
Maybe they don't have as much interactivity so we don't even need javascript.
And yes one thing you can do with server side rendering is make web pages that work even without Javascript.
And also I wanted to point out in the new version of there react on server there is something called
render to node stream which is very very similar to render to string except for the fact that we're
using something called nodes stream which makes this process a lot faster.
So it's a bit of a performance improvement.
But let's go back to our code in react with server side rendering and client side rendering.
You see that we need react because we need to build that dong.
The only difference is that instead of sending that a shemale page with just one day of that has idea
of an app that re-act would attach to on the client side on the server side rendering.
We can actually do that all over here run and render to string so that instead of the browser doing
the work of mounting all those Riak components the server has already done this for us and that's it.
Those are the main principles of server side rendering.
It sounds a lot more complicated than it actually is.
We're just changing a few steps now using server side rendering with re-act does have some edge cases
and it is quite difficult because re-act was originally built for single page applications.
So there's a lot of maneuvering that you have to do in a lot of errors that people get when working
with server side rendering.
And in an upcoming video we're going to talk about better alternatives to doing this.
But for now I think in the next video we should talk about the pros and cons of doing something like
this.
Because again remember although I used react as an example here the principles are all the same for
all types of applications.
I'll see in the next one.